Now with all the events and cross component things going on,
let me go back to the styling of the components and how stencil can help us there too, especially when
it comes to changing the styles depending on the component state.
For example when we enter something here for which we can't find a result. Right now this is not working
anymore as I just noticed
and besides throwing an error message, I also want to change the style of this component anyways,
let's say I want to change the border color.
How could we do that,
how could we mark this overall component as having an error or as being invalid?
Well first of all let me fix that when I click fetch,
I get an error if we can't find something for that symbol.
The problem is I already have a fetch price here,
so if we have an error, I simply want to set the fetch price equal to null again here and now with that,
my old check will work again
and I get the invalid symbol here. So that's this fixed
but I want to work on the styling most of all.
Now it would be convenient if we could just add a class to the overall element,
so here, add a class, hydrated is there by default, stencil adds that and you should not touch that
but then you add your own class, let's say error and you have some CSS code in place that change
changes the look of this component and that even the user of your components,
so the developer using your components can take advantage of because this class is directly on your custom
element, so in global CSS, we could target it and change its style and override the default styles if
we wanted to but I also want to provide some default styles. But it all starts with adding this error
class when we have an error
and for this, there is a special method we can add to any stencil component.
It's the host data method and this is a special reserved name which you, well have to get right if you
want to take advantage of it.
There you return an object with some metadata about your host element,
so your custom element, the tag itself of your custom element so to say. And for example, there
is a class key and this allows you to add a class that will be set on your custom element, like in this
case, error
and so now if reload this, you see the error class is now available too
and I didn't add it now, it just reloaded page.
Now of course, adding static classes like this can be helpful but it's not the primary use case of this
but you can use dynamic code here.
You can check whether this error is true and if it is true and I'm just using a ternary expression here,
I'll set the error class
otherwise I set no class. This would just be one example of how this could get used
and of course, you could also set multiple classes here, besides error,
you also can set the style of the host data
by the way, if you directly want to set something like background red. Now here I want to set this
class and now host data is executed whenever render is executed and therefore whenever a state or
a prop changes and hence whenever error changes and it's not false anymore, it's not undefined anymore,
we add the error class and hence by default, we now don't have the error class
but if I enter an invalid symbol here, you'll see as soon as we see invalid symbol there, we get the error
class here too. And this now allow us to take advantage of this, both from outside
as I mentioned, you can target this, it's a normal class which you can target in your global styles
or of course from inside the component. There on host
when the error class is present and this is how you have this extra condition on the host element, then
you might want to set the border color to let's say orange,
you could of course also use red.
Now we have this
orange here here let's say whenever the error class is present and therefore now, we aready see it, we have
this orange border to kind of indicate something is wrong here and that can be very helpful.
So being aware of host data and how you may use it to conditionally add data to your host element can
be extremely useful.